These proceedings contain the papers presented at the 2nd Workshop on the Use of Computational
Methods in the Study of Endangered languages held in Honolulu, March 6–7, 2017. The workshop itself
was co-located and took place after the 5th International Conference on Language Documentation and
Conservation (ICLDC) at the University of Hawai‘i at Manoa. As the name implies, this is the second
workshop held on the topic — the previous meeting was co-located with the ACL main conference in
Baltimore, Maryland in 2014.

The workshop covers a wide range of topics relevant to the study and documentation of endangered
languages, ranging from technical papers on working systems and applications, to reports on
community activities with supporting computational components.

The purpose of the workshop is to bring together computational researchers, documentary linguists, and
people involved with community efforts of language documentation and revitalization to take part in
both formal and informal exchanges on how to integrate rapidly evolving language processing methods
and tools into efforts of language description, documentation, and revitalization. The organizers are
pleased with the range of papers, many of which highlight the importance of interdisciplinary work and
interaction between the various communities that the workshop is aimed towards.

We received 39 submissions as long papers, short papers, or extended abstracts, of which 23 were
selected for this volume (59%). In the proceedings, all papers are either short (≤5 pages) or long
(≤9 pages). In addition, the workshop also features presentations from representatives of the National
Science Foundation (NSF). Two panel dicussions on the topic of interaction between computational
linguistics and the documentation and revitalization community as well as future planning of ComputEL
underlined the demand and necessity of a workshop of this nature.

The organizing committee would like to thank the program committee for their thoughtful input on
the submissions, as well as the organizers of ICLDC. We are also grateful to the NSF for funding part
of the workshop (awards #1404352 and #1550905), and the Social Sciences and Humanities Research
Council (SSHRC) of Canada for supporting the workshop through their Connections Outreach Grant
#611-2016-0207.
